---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Diving into JS
date: 2016-09-01
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Javascript
---

<h2>Diving Into JS</h2>

For the past week I've had to start learning Javascript.  I dabbled a little bit with the language before taking ICS 314 but not enough to form a solid opinion.  During the week I had several exercises that helped me build my skills in the language.  I had to complete the basic Javascript section from [FreeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.com/) and solving Eulor problems from [Project Eulor](https://projecteuler.net/) by creating and compiling Javascript code in [JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/).

<h3>What do you think about Javascript so far?</h3>

I've found that Javascript is a fun and simple language.  Like C/C++ and Java the basic programming structures are the same.  For example, assignment operators or loops behave the same as the other two languages.  The syntax is very similar as well, I only had to learn a small amount of new syntax, for example, console.log() to print and var 'some variable name' to declare variables.  A difference that I appreciated very much is that Javascript is able to store different variables in the same array.

One thing that I did not like about Javascript is how variables are declared.  Even though variable declaration is the same as C/C++ or Java, the part that I dislike about Javascript variable declaration is that all datatypes can be declared by using either var, let, or const.  By not being able to distinguish the datatype of a variable during declaration I feel that it will bring up problems or increase the complexity of larger, much more complicated projects.

<h2>What about athletic software engineering? Did you find the practice WODs to be useful? What do you think about this style of learning? Is it stressful? Is it enjoyable? Do you think it will work for you?</h2>
